Malware has been around
nearly as long as computers.
In its earliest forms,
it was used by troublemakers
as a form of digital vandalism.
In today's digital world,
malware has become
a profitable crime
that attackers use for
their own financial gain.
As a security professional,
it's important that you remain
aware of the latest evolutions.
Let's take a closer look at
one way malware has evolved.
We'll then use this example
to consider how malware can be
spotted and how you can
proactively protect
against malware.
Ransomware is one
of the types of
malware attackers
use to steal money.
Another more recent type of
malware is cryptojacking.
Cryptojacking is a form
of malware that installs
software to illegally
mine cryptocurrencies.
You may be familiar with
cryptocurrency from the news.
If you're new to the topic,
cryptocurrencies are a form
of digital money that have
real-world value. Like
physical forms of currency,
there are many different types.
For the most part,
they're referred to
as coins or tokens.
In simple terms, crypto mining is
a process used to
obtain new coins.
Crypto mining is
similar to the process
for mining for other resources, like gold.
Mining for something like
gold involves machinery, such
as trucks and bulldozers, that
can dig through the Earth.
Crypto coins, on the other hand,
use computers instead. Rather
than digging through the Earth,
the computers run
software that dig
through billions of
lines of encrypted code.
When enough code is processed,
a crypto coin can be found.
Generally, more
computers mining for
coins mean more cryptocurrency
can be discovered.
Criminals unfortunately
figured this out.
Beginning in 2017, cryptojacking
malware started being used to
gain unauthorized control
of personal computers to
mine cryptocurrency.
Since that time,
cryptojacking techniques have
become more sophisticated.
Criminals now regularly target
vulnerable servers to spread
their mining software.
Devices that communicate with
the infected server become
infected themselves.
The malicious code then
runs in the background,
mining for coins
unknown to anyone.
Cryptojacking software
is hard to detect.
Luckily, security professionals
have sophisticated
tools that can help.
An intrusion detection system,
or IDS, is an application
that monitors system activity
and alerts some
possible intrusions.
When abnormal activity is
detected like, malware
mining for coins, the IDS
alerts security personnel.
Despite their usefulness,
detection systems have
a major drawback.
New forms of malware
can remain undetected.
Fortunately, there are
subtle signs that
indicate a device is
infected with
cryptojacking software
or other forms of malware.
By far the most telling sign of
a cryptojacking
infection is slowdown.
Other signs include
increased CPU usage,
sudden system crashes, and
fast draining batteries.
Another sign is unusually
high electricity costs
related to the resource-
intensive process
of crypto mining.
It's also good to
know that there are
certain measures you can take to
reduce the likelihood
of experiencing
a malware attack
like cryptojacking.
These defenses include
things like using
browser extensions
designed to block malware,
using ad blockers, disabling
JavaScript, and staying
alert on the latest trends.
Security analysts can
also educate others in
their organizations
on malware attacks.
While cryptojacking is
still relatively new,
attacks are becoming
more common.
The type of malicious code
cybercriminals spread is
continually evolving.
It takes many years
of experience
to analyze new forms of malware.
Nevertheless, you're well on
your way towards helping
defend against these threats.